2017/03/09 - (Paper) Adaptive Video Multicast over the Internet - Part 1
============================================================================

Survey

Authors : Jiangchuan Liu and Bo Li , Hong Kong University of Science and Technology

Published in: IEEE MultiMedia ( Volume: 10, Issue: 1, Jan-Mar 2003 )

Full text : `IEEE link here. <http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/1167919/?part=1>`_

Reading Page in this part : 1-4

Introduction
-------------

Multicast extends the traditional unicast communications and ofen called **IP Multicast**.

Bandwidth adaptability becomes an essential requirement for video distrubution over Interner because there's no QoS guarantee in the current best-effort Internet.

Nonadaptive stream (Because Internet is a heterogeneous network.) :

  1. Underuse the available bandwidth or cause congestion.

  2. Unfair bandwidth allocation.

Existing adaptation approaches for video multicast
---------------------------------------------------

Video rates : Single rate and Multirate.

The place where adaption is performed : End system or intermediate network nodes.

Single-rate adaptation
````````````````````````

Sender maintains one vidwo stream and adjusts the rate based on receives' states.(Receivers detect the states.)

-> Sender will be overwhelmed with the reponses.

-> When the size groups , each receiver reduces the frequency of its RTCP report.

**Although incapable of solving the problem of hetergeneity, single-rate multicast can serve as a building block for advanced video multicast protocols, such as the simulcast protocols.**

Simulcast
``````````

Individual feedback-controlled connections -> bandwidth efficiency is low but it can achieve ideal fairness.

Destination Set Grouping (DSG) Protocol :

  Carrying low,medinum , and high quality versions of the original video.

  -> Bandwidth redundancy caused by replication.

Layered adaptation
```````````````````

Decomposition schema : Cumulative Layering.

  1. Base layer : Video main data.

  2. Enhancement layers : Data that refine the reconstructed video quality.

Prioritized transmission :

  1. Base layer is the highest priority.

  2. Enhancement layers have lower priorities.

  -> Require routers to implement priority-based packet scheduling policy.

To be continue...

Summary
----------

In this part of this paper, it discusses about the importance of adaptive stream.It lists the existing adaptation approaches for video multicast , such as Single rate and Simulcast , to improve bandwidth efficiency.
